# Contribution Guidelines

This documentation contains guidelines that should be followed while making your contribution(s):

### Fork the repository

Use the fork button at the top right of the repository to fork this repository. By doing so, a copy of this project will be created in your account.

### Clone the project

Making a copy of the repository available on your local machine is known as "Cloning". To do this, click on the green code button and select http, and copy the url of the project in the dropdown box, after you've done this, run the command in your git bash, terminal or command prompt: `git clone https://github.com/JAILBREAK-101/ECommerceWebPlatform.git`

### Change directory

After that, enter the following command in your terminal or git bash to switch to the repository's directory (folder) that we just cloned:             `cd Ecommerce-Web-Platform`

### Add an Upstream Repo

Upstream basically refers to the original repository or a branch. When you clone a repository from Github, for instance, the remote Github repository is upstream for the cloned local copy. We use the following command to add the upstream to our repository using the main project repository URL:
`git remote add upstream https://github.com/JAILBREAK-101/ECommerceWebPlatform.git`

### Create a new branch

To create a new branch where you will make changes, use this command: `git checkout -b <branch-name>`. After creating the branch, switch to the newly created branch using: `git switch <new-branch-name>`

### Making changes

- If you have a figma design you want to add to the project as one to be used to build the landing page, kindly add it to the [figma](./public/figma/) folder
- If you have been assigned an issue, endeavour to create a new branch and make your changes. For your code to be merged, refrain from pushing from the main branch.
- Kindly be informed that any PR that modifies someone else's lines(s) of code won't be merged unless it is absolutely necessary.
- Contributions of any kind will be much appreciated too, be it fixing grammatical errors, fixing broken links, etc. If the contribution is minimal, go ahead to create a pull request, else raise an issue before making your contribution.

### Commit messages

- When writing your commit messages:
  - Keep it short and concise.
  - Also, write your commit messages in the imperative: "add navbar" and not "added navbar" or "adds navbar". This convention matches up with commit messages generated by commands like git merge and git revert.
  - Your commit message should not end with a period `.`

#### Finally, if you are just getting started to project contributions, here is a [repository](https://github.com/JAILBREAK-101/Nutshell-GitHub) that could help you out

##### Goodluck with the Contributions 🚀
